Votca Tutorial Guide
====================

(Based on the 2011-2017 CECAM meetings)

Please pick topics you are most interested in, since finishing the
tutorial might take longer than one afternoon.

Installation
============

Building VOTCA
--------------

The simplest way is to use CMake:

.. code:: bash

    prefix=~/votca
    version=master # or 'stable' or 'v1.4.1'
    git clone -b ${version} --recursive https://github.com/votca/votca.git
    cd votca
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=${prefix} ..
    make -j5
    make install

To build a gromacs version for VOTCA use

.. code:: bash

    cmake -DBUILD_OWN_GROMACS=ON ..
    make -j5
    make install

Using the tutorials
-------------------

All the tutorials are in the installation folder, i.e.
``${prefix}/share/votca/csg-tutorials``.

Downloading the manual
----------------------

The corresponding version of the manual can be found on
`github <https://github.com/votca/csg-manual/releases>`__ (development
version `here <http://doc.votca.org/manual.pdf>`__).

Running GROMACS
===============

The tutorial uses GROMACS, a molecular dynamics (MD) package, for
generating the reference data. If you are not familiar with GROMACS,
please read the following section for a brief overview on how to set up
and run MD simulations using GROMACS. You can find all the GROMACS input
files in the ``atomistic`` folder of each tutorial, e.g., for a box of
atomistic water see ``csg-tutorials/spce/atomistic/``.

Input files
-----------

You will need four files to run MD simulations \* ``conf.gro`` - stores
the coordinates of the molecule(s). It can be viewed with vmd. The
default file name is ``conf.gro``. \* ``grompp.mdp`` - stores all
simulation options, such as time step, number of simulation steps, etc.
\* ``topol.top`` - topology of the molecule \* ``forcefield.itp`` -
description of the atomistic force-field (not always needed)

During this tutorial, you will need to modify \* ``nsteps`` - number of
MD steps \* ``nstxout`` - output frequency of coordinates to the
trajectory file traj.trr \* ``nstfout`` - output frequency of forces to
traj.trr \* ``nstxout-compressed`` - output frequency to the traj.xtc
file, often used by the iterative Boltzmann inversion method \*
``nstlog`` - output frequency of the md.log file \* ``nstenergy`` -
output frequency to the ener.edr file containing all thermodynamic
information

MD simulations
--------------

To run MD simulations using GROMACS, first one must create a binary
topology file ``topol.tpr`` using the ``gmx grompp`` program. Then run
the MD integrator using the ``gmx mdrun`` program. ``topol.tpr``
contains ``conf.gro``, ``grompp.mdp``, ``topol.top``, and
``forcefield.itp``.

.. code:: bash

    gmx grompp -c conf.gro # -c is needed if other than conf.gro file is used
    gmx mdrun -v # -v (verbose) gives the estimate of the run time

Running other MD programs
=========================

In addition to GROMACS, VOTCA supports ``ESPResSo``, ``Lammps``,
``dl_poly``, ``HOOMD-blue``, and ``ESPResSo++``. The interface to these
is a bit more advanced, meaning VOTCA will allow you to do more crazy
things and warn you less about settings, which might not make sense at
all. Let's have a look at ``csg-tutorials/spce/espressopp/``.
(``ibi_lammps``, ``ibi_espresso``, ``ibi_dlpoly``, and
``ibi_hoomd-blue`` are pretty similar)

Input files

Here is an example of the ESPResSo++ input files to run the CG MD
simulations of the Iterative Boltzmann inversion procedure.

-  ``conf.gro`` - stores the coordinates of the molecule(s). It can be
   viewed with vmd. A pdb or xyz file would be okay, too.
-  ``spce.py`` is the simulation script which will be called by
   csg\_inverse. It stores the whole simulation procedure.
-  ``topol.xml`` -topology of the molecule, defined in the initial
   condition. This is needed as most gro/pdb/xyz files have no molecule
   definition in them.

Mapping an atomistic trajectory onto a coarse-grained trajectory
================================================================

SPC/E Water
-----------

Folder: ``csg-tutorials/spce/atomistic/``

Have a look at the center of mass mapping file ``water.xml`` in this
folder. Use ``csg_map`` to create a coarse-grained configuration (adjust
the corresponding command in the ``run.sh`` script to map ``conf.gro``
instead of ``confout.gro``). Visualize both configurations with vmd.
(execute ``vmd conf.gro &``)

Create a mapping file where the center of a coarse-grained water
molecule is not the center of mass, but a different one, e.g., the
charge center of the atomistic one.

Run a short MD simulation of a box of SPC/E water using GROMACS. (This
is needed later for the different coarse-graining (CG) methods.) The
input files are in the same folder (``csg-tutorials/spce/atomistic/``).
Due to limited time, decrease the number of steps (``nsteps``) in
``grompp.mdp`` to a reasonable value (``5000-10000``) and adjust the
output frequency of the trajectory, .log, and .edr files to, e.g.,
50-100 (``nstxout``, ``nstfout``, ``nstlog``, nstenergy):

.. code:: bash

    gmx grompp # combines conf.gro, topol.top, and grompp.mdp, and forcefield.itp (which is in the gromos43a1.ff folder of GROMACS) into topol.tpr
    gmx mdrun -v # runs MD integrator. The trajectory is saved to traj.trr

Map this short atomistic trajectory to a CG trajectory using ``csg_map``
(adjust the corresponding line in the ``run.sh`` script to map
``traj.trr`` onto ``traj_cg.trr`` instead of ``conf(out).gro`` to
``conf_cg.gro``.)

Iterative Boltzmann inversion (IBI) for SPC/E water
===================================================

Here, a one-site coarse-grained (CG) model of a rigid 3-site water
molecule (SPC/E model) is constructed (see the previous section of the
tutorial) using the iterative Boltzmann inversion (IBI) method. The
center of the CG bead is chosen to be the center of mass (COM) of a
molecule. The target radial distribution function (RDF) is calculated
from the CG bead coordinates obtained by mapping the reference atomistic
trajectory. In the last step, a coarse-grained potential is obtained by
matching the RDFs of the atomisitc and CG systems using the IBI method.
For a more detailed description, look at the following
`publication <http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/ct900369w>`__.

Atomistic simulation
--------------------

A short atomistic MD simulation has been already run in the last part of
the previous section (see folder: ``csg-tutorials/spce/atomistic/``).
You can extract all thermodynamic information (total energy, kinetic
energy, pressure, etc.) from the binary ``ener.edr`` file using
``gmx energy``. Running the ``Extract_Energies.sh`` script does this for
you (see the corresponding command line in the ``run.sh`` script). It
creates an additional subfolder ``energies`` with all thermodynamic
information:

.. code:: bash

    ./Extract_Energies.sh $equi #  The argument $equi is optional. If provided, analysis will start at the corresponding time frame (in GROMACS units, ps) (e.g. 1 to 5)

Calculation of RDF
------------------

Once again, check the mapping file ``water.xml``. Atom names listed in
the definition of the COM bead should correspond to those used in the
``conf.gro`` file. You can use ``csg_dump`` to check this:

.. code:: bash

    csg_dump --top topol.tpr 

Check the options file ``settings.xml``. It contains the section of the
corresponding non-bonded interaction (``CG-CG``). After this, calculate
the center of mass RDF:

.. code:: bash

    csg_stat --top topol.tpr --trj traj.trr --cg water.xml --options settings.xml (--nt 3 --begin $equi) # ( ) denotes additional options: --nt # number of threads to run calculation in parallel with more then one threads (e.g. 3), --begin # time frame in GROMACS units (ps) to start analysis (e.g. 1 to 5)

Compare your RDF with ``CG-CG.dist.tgt`` in ``csg-tutorials/spce/ibi/``
which has been calculated with a much longer atomistic simulation run.

Running IBI
-----------

Now switch to the folder: ``csg-tutorials/spce/ibi/``. Reduce the number
of MD steps in ``grompp.mdp`` and adjust the equilibration time in the
settings.xml file (``cg.gromacs.equi_time``) to a lower value (time
frame in GROMACS units (ps) at which the analysis of the CG trajectory
is started in each IBI step). Finally, start the IBI iterations:

.. code:: bash

    csg_inverse --options settings.xml

At each iteration step, the current CG potential is ``CG-CG.pot.cur``.
Then, the CG-MD simulation is performed and the CG-CG RDF
(``CG-CG.dist.new``) is determined. Finally, the CG potential is
updated: ``CG-CG.pot.new``.

Calculate the pressure after several iterations using ``gmx energy``.
You can do this by copying the ``Extract_Energies.sh`` script from the
main folder (``csg-tutorials/spce/ibi/``) to the appropriate step folder
(``step_xxx``) and executing it (type ``./Extract_Energies.sh``). Again,
it will create a subfolder energies. You may notice that the pressure of
the CG simulation is significantly too high. This can be adjusted by
applying a pressure correction. To do so, add an appropriate post update
option to the settings file, so that a (simple) pressure correction is
applied. You can check the corresponding section of the manual.

Inverse Monte Carlo (IMC) for SPC/E water
=========================================

Developing a CG potential with the inverse Monte Carlo (IMC) method
works in a similar way as in the IBI example. The IMC procedure, again,
requires the coarse-grained RDF of the single bead mapping based on the
atomistic simulation as input. Therefore, in ``csg-tutorials/spce/imc``,
again, the RDF of a long atomistic simulation run is proveded:
``CG-CG.dist.tgt``.

It is required to reduce the number of MD steps in ``grompp.mdp`` and to
adjust the equilibration time in the ``settings.xml`` file
(``cg.gromacs.equi_time``) to a lower value. IMC converges faster than
IBI, but needs a better statistical sampling in each CG step. Therefore,
the number of MD steps should be larger than in the IBI tutorial. Start
the IMC iterations:

.. code:: bash

    csg_inverse --options settings.xml

Again, the current CG potential is ``CG-CG.pot.cur``, the CG-CG RDF is
``CG-CG.dist.new`` and the updated CG potential is: ``CG-CG.pot.new``.

Calculate the pressure after several iterations using ``gmx energy`` and
compare it with the IBI tutorial. You can do this by copying the
``Extract_Energies.sh`` script from the main folder
(``csg-tutorials/spce/ibi/``) to the appropriate step folder
(``step_xxx``) and executing it.

Relative entropy (RE) minimization for SPC/E water
==================================================

Relative entropy (RE) minimization based coarse-graining of SPC/E water
works similar to the IBI and the IMC example above. The reference
atomistic simulation and the CG mapping are the same as in the IBI
example. Again, in ``csg-tutorials/spce/re/``, the RDF of a long
atomistic simulation run is provided: ``CG-CG.dist.tgt``. In this
tutorial, the water-water CG potential is modeled using a cubic B-spline
functional form. An initial guess for the cubic B-spline knot values is
provided in CG-CG.param.init. At each iteration step, the CG potential
table is computed from the current CG parameters (``CG-CG.param.cur``),
the CG-MD simulation is performed, and the CG-CG RDF
(``CG-CG.dist.new``) is determined. Finally, the new CG potential
parameters (``CG-CG.param.new``) are computed using the relative entropy
minimization algorithm. Reduce the number of MD steps in ``grompp.mdp``,
adjust the equilibration time in the ``settings.xml`` file
(``cg.gromacs.equi_time``) and start the RE iterations:

.. code:: bash

    csg_inverse --options settings.xml

Again, the current CG potential is ``CG-CG.pot.cur``, the CG-CG RDF is
``CG-CG.dist.new`` and the updated CG potential is: ``CG-CG.pot.new``.

Calculate the pressure after several iterations using ``gmx energy`` and
compare it with the IBI tutorial. Again, you can do this by copying the
``Extract_Energies.sh`` script from the main folder
(``csg-tutorials/spce/ibi/``) to the appropriate step folder
(``step_xxx``) and executing it. For a more detailed description of the
RE method, look at the following
`publication <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0131754>`__.

Force matching for SPC/E water
==============================

We will now derive a non-bonded CG potential for SPC/E using the force
matching method.

Atomistic simulation
--------------------

Basis for the force matching procedure is an atomistic MD simulation.
All files are found in the atomistic folder
(``csg-tutorials/spce/atomistic/``). If you have done the above
tutorials, you have already generated the files of the atomistic md run.
If not, then do so. Adjust the number of time steps to a reasonable
value (``5000-10000``) and also choose an appropriate output frequency
of the trajectory. Make sure, both, coordinates and forces are written
to the trajectory file (``nstxout`` and ``nstfout`` should have the same
value in ``grompp.mdp``).

Force matching (FM)
-------------------

All files for running the actual force matching calculation can be found
in ``csg-tutorials/spce/force_matching/``. Have a look at the settings
file (``fmatch.xml``). In the general force matching section
(``cg.fmatch``), the number of frames to read in simultaneously
(``frames_per_block``) and the type of LS solver (constrainedLS) are
fixed (it is preferred to use constrained LS). The fmatch block of the
interaction (``cg.non-bonded.fmatch``) contains the interaction range
(``min`` and ``max``), the step size for the internal spline
representation (``step``) and the output step (``out_step``). ``min``
and ``max`` have to be adjusted to be within the range of the RDF (see
the calculation of RDF section of the IBI tutorial). Run the FM
calculation (see also the corresponding line of the ``run.sh`` script):

.. code:: bash

    csg_fmatch --top ../atomistic/topol.tpr --trj ../atomistic/traj.trr --options fmatch.xml --cg water.xml (--begin $equi ) # ( ) denotes additional option: , --begin # time frame in GROMACS units (ps) to start analysis (e.g. 1 to 5)

To obtain the CG potential, the CG force has to be integrated. (see the
appropriate lines in the ``run.sh`` script):

.. code:: bash

    csg_call table integrate CG-CG.force CG-CG.pot # integrates the table
    csg_call table linearop CG-CG.pot CG-CG.pot -1 0 # multiplication of all table values by -1 (potential)

Change the spline grid (``step``), blocksize, and parameter
constrainedLS. his should provide an overview of the whole procedure.

Running of CG simulation
------------------------

To run a CG simulation with GROMACS, the potential has to be converted
to a potential table, GROMACS can read (``table_CG_CG.xvg``). (Check the
inverse section in the ``fmatch.xml`` for the corresponding options):

.. code:: bash

    csg_call --options fmatch.xml --ia-name CG-CG --ia-type non-bonded convert_potential gromacs --clean input.pot table_CG_CG.xvg # calls convert_potential gromacs. Unsampled regions for distances smaller than the min value are extrapolated.

To run a CG simulation, you will need the ``conf.gro``, ``topol.top``,
``index.ndx`` and ``grompp.mdp`` files. You can use the ones of the ibi
tutorial, and adjust the number of timesteps and output settings. Then
run the simulation. Afterwards, you can calculate the RDF and
thermodynamic data as explained in the IBI tutorial. You can also use
the ``Extract_Energies.sh`` script of the IBI tutorial. When calculating
the RDF from the CG simulation, you don't need a mapping file and the
--cg option can be omitted.

Compare the CG potential, the RDF and thermodynamics with the ones of
the IBI, IMC or RE method (or any other method) and with the atomistic
simulation. You will see that different methods lead to significantly
different interaction potentials and a single site water model with a
pair interaction potential is not capable of reproducing the RDF and
thermodynamics at the same time. (Reason: three-body contributions are
important but cannot be projected on a 2-body coarse-grained
force-field. The incorporation of non-bonded 3-body interactions is work
in progress. An extension to analytic non-bonded 3-body interactions
will be released soon).

Visualization of IBI updates
============================

Go to the folder ``csg-tutorials/spce/realtime``. Execute the ``run.sh``
script.

Coarse-graining of liquid methanol
==================================

In the folder ``csg-tutorials/methanol/``, you will find all relevant
files to run an atomistic simulation of liquid methanol and obtain CG
potentials with the IBI, IMC and FM method. Look at the SPC/E water
tutorial to learn how to do this. You can compare the differences of the
CG potentials, RDFs and thermodynamics between the different CG schemes
and the atomistic simulation to the differences of the SPC/E water
simulations. You will see that in the case of methanol, a pair potential
is a better approximation to an ideal CG potential as in the SPC/E water
case. The reason is that non-bonded 3-body effects are less important.

Coarse-graining of liquid hexane
================================

Go to the folder ``csg-tutorials/hexane/``. So far, we only considered
single bead mappings. Hexane is a small alkane molecule. In this
tutorial, a 3 bead CG mapping with one bond type and one angle type is
chosen

Atomistic simulation
--------------------

Go into the ``csg-tutorials/hexane/atomistic/`` folder. Have a look at
the mapping file ``hexane.xml``. The hexane molecule is mapped to 3
beads with two different bead types with two bonds (of the same type)
and one angle. You will find all relevant GROMACS input files in the
folder. Have a look at the ``run.sh`` script. Again, adjust the number
of time steps and the output frequencies in grompp.mdp and run an
atomistic simulation. Extract the thermodynamic information
(``./Extract_Energies.sh``) and calculate the 3 different RDFs (A-A,
B-B, A-B) and the bond and angle distributions with ``csg_stat``. In
addition, you can compute the bond and angle distributions with
``csg_boltzmann`` (see ``run_boltzmann.sh``) Compare the distributions
to those in ``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_all`` obtained by a significantly
longer atomistic MD run. You can map the (final) .gro file of the
atomistic simuation to the CG one to get all necessary information for
running the IBI procedure.

IBI for all interactions
------------------------

Go to the folder ``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_all``. The folder contains
target RDFs and bond and angle distributions from a longer atomistic MD
run. Have a look at the ``settings.xml`` file. It contains the sections
for the non-bonded and bonded interactions. The three non-bonded
interactions are updated every 3rd iteration step (first A-A, then B-B
and then A-B, etc., see the ``cg.non-bonded.inverse.do_potential``
section). The bonded interactions are updated every iteration step.
Adjust the number of time steps and output frequency in the
``grompp.mdp`` file and the equilibration time in the ``settings.xml``
file (``cg.inverse.gromacs.equi_time``) and start the IBI iterations.
Calculate the pressure after several iterations using ``gmx energy``.
You can do this by copying the ``Extract_Energies.sh`` script from the
main folder (``csg-tutorials/spce/ibi/``) to the appropriate step folder
(``step_xxx``) and executing it.

IBI for non-bonded interactions only
------------------------------------

Go to the folder ``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_nonbonded``. The folder
contains the same target RDFs as the ``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_all``
folder. In addition, it contains the tabulated bond and angle potentials
(``table_b1.xvg`` and ``table_a1.xvg``). They are obtained by
(non-iterative) Boltzmann inversion of the bond and angle target
distribution functions of a longer MD simulation run. You can compute
them with ``csg_boltzmann`` (see the ``run_boltzmann.sh`` script). A
lack of statistics will become most apparent at lower values of the
angle. In this case you might want to adjust the min value in the
``boltzmann_cmds`` file. Compare your results with the pre-computed ones
(``table_b1.xvg`` and ``table_a1.xvg``) and with the ones in the
subfolder ``step_001`` in ``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_all`` Again, adjust
the number of time steps and equilibration time and start the iteration
process. Calculate the pressure and compare the thermodynamic properties
as well as the obtained non-bonded potentials with the ones of the
``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_all tutorial``. Calculate the bond and angle
distributions (This can be done with ``csg_stat``, using the
``settings.xml`` file and the ``hexane_cg.xml`` mapping file of the
``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_all`` folder.)

FM for all interactions together
--------------------------------

Go to the folder ``csg-tutorials/hexane/force_matching``. The folder
contains the hexane mapping file with bond and angle interactions
(``hexane.xml``) and the force matching options file (``fmatch.xml``).
Have a look at both files and the ``run.sh`` script and start the force
matching procedure. Basis is the atomistic trajectory with force output
in ``csg-tutorials/hexane/atomistic``. Integrate the force output to
obtain the potentials and convert them to GROMACS tables. (see the
``run.sh`` script). Compare the obtained potentials to the IBI
potentials. You can run CG simulations with the CG potentials, again,
using the ``conf.gro``, ``topol.top``, ``index.ndx`` and ``grompp.mdp``
files from the ``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_all`` folder. Calculate the
RDFs, bond and angle distributions. When comparing the results to the
IBI potentials, you will see that in some cases, force matching can have
problems with bonded interactions, especially if the functional form of
the coarse-grained force field lacks essential interactions such as
bond-angle or 3-body correlations. In such cases it can help to perform
force matching only on the non-bonded contributions as was shown
`here <http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/mats.201100011>`__.

FM for non-bonded interactions only
-----------------------------------

The files for the tutorial can be found in
``csg-tutorials/hexane/hybrid_force_matching/``. The folder should
contain all necessary files to reproduce the plots from the
`publication <http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/mats.201100011>`__. To be able
to parametrize only the non-bonded interactions via force matching, an
atomistic trajectory has to be generated containing only forces
contributing to the non-bonded interactions, meaning all other
contributions need to be excluded. This is achieved by generating a
second atomistic topoly file. Have a look at the topol.top file and
compare it to the one in ``csg-tutorials/hexane/atomistic/``. All bonded
interactions have been deleted. Furthermore, all intramolecular
interactions have been explicitly excluded. Generate the binary GROMACS
topology file using this ``topol.top`` file and the ``conf.gro`` and
``grommp.mdp`` file of the reference atomistic trajectory
(``csg-tutorials/hexane/atomistic/``). Then, generate the trajectory
file with excluded bonded interactions using ``gmx mdrun`` with the
``-rerun`` option. (Have a look at the corresponding lines of the
``run.sh`` script). Have a look at the ``fmatch.xml`` file. It now only
contains the non-bonded interactions. Start the FM calculation.
Afterwards, intergrate the force output and convert the potentials to
GROMACS tables (see the ``run.sh`` script). You can run the CG
simulation, using the ``conf.gro``, ``topol.top``, ``index.ndx`` and
``grompp.mdp`` files and the bond and angle potential (``table_b1.xvg``
and ``table_a1.xvg``) from the ``csg-tutorials/hexane/ibi_nonbonded/``
folder. Calculate the RDFs, bond and angle distributions and compare the
results to the IBI results and FM of all interactions together.

Regularization of the inverse Monte Carlo method
================================================

For this tutorial go to the folder ``csg-tutorials/LJ1-LJ2/imc``.
Inverse Monte Carlo (IMC) needs a well defined cross-correlation matrix
for which enough sampling is needed. If there is not enough sampling the
algorithm might not converge to a stable solution. This might also
happen if the initial potential guess for the iterative scheme is too
far away from the real solution of the inverse problem. To overcome this
deficiency and to stabilize the algorithm one could apply the so called
Tikhonov regularization, which is a common technique to regularize
ill-posed inverse problems. For further information on the Tikhonov
regularization and/or ill-posed inverse problems in general don't
hesitate to have a look at the manual of VOTCA-1.4 to get a short
overview or for a more detailed description at this
`publication <http://epjst.epj.org/articles/epjst/abs/2016/07/epjst160120/epjst160120.html>`__
or consult any book of choice on regularization of inverse problems.

This tutorial can be considered to be a proof of concept. It is based on
the above mentioned
`publication <http://epjst.epj.org/articles/epjst/abs/2016/07/epjst160120/epjst160120.html>`__.
Here the user should get familiar with the application of the Tikhonov
regularization and should see its benefit. The file ``run.sh`` will
execute a preliminary run of 10 steps of iterative Boltzmann inverson
(IBI) before the IMC method is applied. The users should figure out what
happens if the preliminary IBI steps are skipped and should test
different regularization parameters (e.g. 10,100.300,1000). The folder
also contains a short python script which performs a singular value
decomposition of the cross-correlation matrix (``svd.py``). Based on
this decomposition one could get an educated guess on the order of the
magnitude of the regularization parameter. It should be larger than the
smallest singular values squared and smaller compared to the larger
ones.

Additional tutorials
====================

Have a look in the folder ``csg-tutorials``. It contains additional
tutorials on propane, methanol-water and urea-water mixtures. To do the
tutorials, have a look at the corresponding ``run.sh`` scripts.

Advanced topics
===============

Extending the scripting framework
---------------------------------

Write a post update script, which smooths the tail of a potential by
transforming ``dU(r)`` to ``s(r)dU(r)`` with

::

    s(r) = 1 for r < rt
    s(r) = 1-(rc-rt)-3(r - rt)2(3rc-rt-2r) for rt < r < rc
    s(r) = 0 for r > rt

Hints: Start from ``skeleton.pl`` and use ``pressure_cor_simple.pl`` as
a template.

Writing an analysis tool
------------------------

VOTCA allows to write your own analysis code. There are many examples
and two templates for serial and threaded analysis. If you are willing
to learn how to write your own analysis in C++, ask for assistance.
